# MongoDB-Interactive-Animal-Shelter-Dashboard
An interactive DASH dashboard created for an animal shelter database using python and MongoDB.


1. How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future? 

In order to write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable, I opted to create a CRUD module which covers all the necessary functionality to manipulate a variety of data, not just the animal shelter database that I was tasked to work with in this project. The advantage of creating CRUD functionality during development is that it gives full control of the database within your python project, allowing integrations with third party libraries such as JupyterDash, which was used to create the dashboard that displayed MongoDB's animal shelter data. To be more specific, creating a CRUD module such as mine allows manipulating of any database specified as it is not specifically attached to the animal shelter. There are no limitations on what type of MongoDB database can be connected to the module, nor the contents of the data. The CRUD is meant to create new data for insertion, read existing data, update existing data, and delete existing data of any database I connect.

2. How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

As a computer scientist, my approach to finishing tasks and solving problems is done in a linear/direct fashion. As it is simply not rational to create code the functionality of which expands past the required boundaries for the assigned task, my aim is to engineer code fine tuned to serve a specific purpose. For example, when creating the Read method of the CRUD module, it would be not rational to add Update functionality within the same method of that module, as that should be made within another method entirely. In all honestly, my approach to this project did not differ from previous assignments in other courses. CRUD functionality can be considered as a common standard when working with databases, and the only difference I can see within the work I conducted with this project is that my ability to create an adaptable, maintainable, and effective CRUD module was visibly more efficient. As for techniques and strategies that I would use in the future to create databases to meet my client's requests, they would be fine tuned to their specific needs and requests, containing the minimum data for their required functionality while retaining maximum efficiency and memory management, especially when dealing with databases that can potentially grow extremely large.

3. What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Similar to how Karl Benz (is thought to have) created the very first car, computer scientists develop, refactor, and automate new and existing technology to raise the effectiveness of human workflow. Computer scientists and software engineers created the very first phones, which we now use for communication. They were the ones who created automated voice messaging systems that many companies now use when you call them. They develop countless websites and software that make life easier, from accounting programs to rockets and drones used in warfare. Without computer scientists, humanity's efficiency and development would progress considerably slower. With my current experience of working at a company developing an online, web-based accounting software (syncbooks.com) that directly interacts with a database and the knowledge I have picked up in this course, my work at a company such as Grazioso Salvare would streamline their development through the creation of an efficient CRUD module and its active implementation within their project, allowing for seamless control of the data stored in their database. This would allow them to create, update, read, and delete data effectively and dynamically when necessary, manipulating data at will. Other than that, my general technical programming skills could go further to create back-end interactions between client, server, and database for more specific tasks, such as searching for more specific information, sorting, filtering, and much more.
